Update memory-inspector-tool.md (#1864)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/memory-inspector/memory-inspector-tool.md

   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.  -->

# Inspect a JavaScript ArrayBuffer using Memory Inspector

> Use Memory Inspector to view JavaScript ArrayBuffers and the WebAssembly (WASM) resizable ArrayBuffer `WebAssembly.Memory`. You can open Memory Inspector from the [DevTools menu](#open-memory-inspector-from-the-devtools-menu) or [while debugging](#open-memory-inspector-while-debugging).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use Memory Inspector to view and interact with the following types of objects:
- [ArrayBuffers](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/web/javascript/reference/global_objects/arraybuffer)
- [TypedArray](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray)
- [DataView](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
- [WebAssembly (WASM) memory](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/WebAssembly/Memory)

You can open Memory Inspector from the [DevTools menu](#open-memory-inspector-from-the-devtools-menu) or [while debugging](#open-memory-inspector-while-debugging).
```

based on info from: https://developer.chrome.com/blog/memory-inspector/

Author: changed

> <!-- add more scenario type info, ask Zoher -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Sources tool provides a limited ability to inspect `ArrayBuffers` when debugging. The **Scope** view in the Sources tool displays a list of single values within the array buffer, which makes it difficult to see all of the data. Additionally, navigating to a certain range within the buffer requires you to scroll to a specific index and the values are always displayed as a single byte, even if you wanted to see them in another format, like 32-bit integers.
```

This blog post: https://developer.chrome.com/blog/memory-inspector/ was helpful for understanding some of these details. I would also propose adding this image to show the **Scopes** view in the Sources tool and its limitations for array buffers: https://wd.imgix.net/image/dPDCek3EhZgLQPGtEG3y0fTn4v82/SUDWzfUA2n6KopYBHxKh.png?auto=format&w=845

Author: added text and new image

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Open the test site in Microsoft Edge

1. Start Microsoft Edge.

1. Open the test site [http://memory-inspector.glitch.me/demo-js.html](http://memory-inspector.glitch.me/demo-js.html). <!-- To do item: copy to Microsoft Repo and reference there -->

<!-- ====================================================================== -->

> ## Open Memory Inspector from the DevTools menu

Reviewer: I'm not sure this section adds any value. The entry point for Memory Inspector really appears to be when you're debugging. I think we could cut this section and it wouldn't even affect the rest of the doc

Author: deleted

1. Open DevTools by pressing `F12` or `Ctrl`+`Shift`+`I` (Windows, Linux) or `Command`+`Option`+`I` (macOS).

1. To open Memory Inspector select **More Tools** (**+**) > Memory Inspector

    ![Welcome to Microsoft Edge DevTools](../media/memory-inspector-devtools-more-tools.png)

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Open Memory Inspector while debugging

1. Open the demo webpage [Inspect ArrayBuffers in JS (Memory in JS)](https://memory-inspector.glitch.me/demo-js.html). <!-- To do item: copy to Microsoft Repo and reference there -->

1. Open DevTools by pressing `F12` or `Ctrl`+`Shift`+`I` (Windows, Linux) or `Command`+`Option`+`I` (macOS).

1. Click **Sources** and open the `demo-js.js` file.

1. Set a breakpoint at line **18** as shown in the following image.

    ![Memory Inspector set breakpoint in JavaScript file](../media/memory-inspector-set-breakpoint.png)

> 1. Refresh the webpage. It fails to display because JavaScript stops processing at the breakpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Refresh the webpage. It fails to display because the JavaScript debugger pauses at the breakpoint.
```

Author: fixed

1. In the right Debugger pane under **Scope**, find the `buffer` line.

1. From the `buffer` line you can open Memory Inspector using one of the following methods:

    * Click on the **Reveal in Memory Inspector panel** icon at the end of the `buffer` property line (![Reveal in Memory Inspector panel icon](../media/memory-inspector-open-from-buffer-icon.png)), or
 
    * From the context menu. Right click on the `buffer` property and select **Reveal in Memory Inspector panel**.

    ![Open Memory Inspector from the buffer property line context menu](../media/memory-inspector-open-from-buffer.png)

    The JavaScript ArrayBuffer opens in Memory Inspector.

    ![ArrayBuffer open in the Memory Inspector panel](../media/memory-inspector-panel.png)

### Inspect multiple objects

You can inspect multiple objects at the same time such as DataView and TypedArray.

> In the demo webpage line `b2` is a TypedArray. Right click on the `b2` property and select **Reveal in Memory Inspector panel**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the demo webpage paused at the breakpoint, object `b2` in the **Scopes** view is a TypedArray. Right click on the `b2` object and select **Reveal in Memory Inspector panel**.
```

Author: fixed

> A new tab opens next to the first tab in Memory Inspector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A new tab for the `b2` object opens next to the first tab, which represents the `buffer object`, in Memory Inspector.
```

Author: done

![Two ArrayBuffer tabs open in the Memory Inspector panel](../media/memory-inspector-panel-two.png)

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Navigating in Memory Inspector

The Memory Inspector panel includes three types of content:

* [Navigation bar](#navigation-bar)
* [Memory buffer](#memory-buffer)
* [Value inspector](#value-inspector)

### Navigation bar

![Memory Inspector panel Navigation bar](../media/memory-inspector-panel-navigation-bar.png)
 
* The address input shows the current byte address in hex format. You can change the value to jump to a new location in the memory buffer. Click in the text box and change the value to `0x00000008`. The Memory buffer immediately jumps to that byte address.

* Memory buffers may be longer than one page. Use the left and right arrow buttons to navigate Previous page and Next page, respectively. If there is only one page of memory buffer data, the arrows take you to the beginning and ending of the page.

> * Use the far-left history arrows to **Go back in address history** and **Go forward in address history**.

Reviewer: It took me awhile to understand what arrows you were talking about here. I would include an icon with the arrows so it's easier to identify them or annotate the screenshot with numbers and then use the numbers to reflect the part of the UI you're talking about here

Author: done

> * If the Memory buffer does not automatically update when stepping through values, click **Refresh**.

Reviewer: Same comment here as I had above. I didn't know where the Refresh button was. We should include the icon or make a connection to the screenshot

Author: done

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## WebAssembly memory inspection

For WebAssembly (Wasm) memory inspection, the process is similar to inspecting JavaScript memory.

1. Open the Wasm test site [http://memory-inspector.glitch.me/demo-wasm.html](http://memory-inspector.glitch.me/demo-wasm.html). <!-- To do item: copy to Microsoft Repo and reference there -->

1. Open DevTools by pressing `F12` or `Ctrl`+`Shift`+`I` (Windows, Linux) or `Command`+`Option`+`I` (macOS).

1. Click **Sources** and open the `memory-write.wasm` file.

1. Set a breakpoint at the first line in the loop, hexadecimal value **0x03c**.

1. Refresh the page.

1. In the debugger pane under **Scope**, expand the **Module**.

    ![Memory Inspector set breakpoint in Wasm file](../media/memory-inspector-wasm-breakpoint.png)

1. Click on the **Reveal in Memory Inspector panel** icon at the end of the `$imports.memory` property line (![Reveal in Memory Inspector panel icon](../media/memory-inspector-open-from-buffer-icon.png)). 

    The Wasm ArrayBuffer opens in Memory Inspector.
    
    ![Memory Inspector panel Wasm](../media/memory-inspector-panel-wasm.png)

> <!-- ====================================================================== -->

Reviewer: I don't think the doc you've linked in the [!NOTE] is the right one. https://developer.chrome.com/blog/memory-inspector/ is a link to a blog titled "Introducing the Memory Inspector" which has good information about what this tool does but the actual doc we modified is: https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/memory-inspector/

I would propose linking to the "Introducing the Memory Inspector" as an entry under a new "See also" heading or something like that

Author: fixed
